well let's find out more about the
plight of children in Gaza and speak to
Toby frier who spokesman for the un's
children's agency UNICEF is joining us
live from am man thank you Toby for
being with us on Al jazer I want to
start off with with the babies at alifa
hospital the babies in need of intensive
care at risk because they've been taking
out of the the their incubators there
how concerning is this for Unicef and
what are your team's on the ground
telling you about what's being done to
prevent these babies from
dying
yeah I mean I mean it's it's a tragedy
uh we've got to the stage now where we
have premature babies uh inside a
hospital who who are struggling to stay
alive who are already dying uh because
of a lack of access to electricity the
power's off there's no water uh there's
intense attacks around um and and the
situation is absolutely D imagine being
your father mother of those child sort
of watching helplessly um so it's it's
really cast stopic right now you know
and we've said you we said uh a couple
of days ago that the Child Health
Service is for 1 million children across
the Gaza Strip and now really at at
breaking point you know not just the the
specific case of these per of babies in
alifa but but across the Gaza Strip they
know there is no safe place for for
children right now Toby are you uh
talking to Israeli authorities about the
plight of children and the plight of
these babies specifically at
alifa yeah in UNICEF we work with with
everyone we work with all parties to the
conflict the UN does as well and we work
at all different levels um and and we
keep doing that and we'll keep doing
that because what we need now is is
urgent you know International action
let's say to to stop you know saying you
know enough is enough and we need to
protect children now like I said we've
got to this stage where children even in
hospitals you know newborns newborns who
have just come into into the world are
not able to survive um so it's it's it's
really horrific situ situation for every
child you know for every parent across
the Gaza Strip yeah and many Health Care
Facilities as you say dedicated to
children in Gaza have seized their
operations and what children uh um in
Gaza are facing right now especially
those in the north is is beyond the
bombs and mortars isn't
it it is yeah beyond the bom bombs and
mortars we have you know massive
concerns in terms of disease outbreaks
you know we have a health system that
that's on the brink um so children who
need additional support children who
have cancer children with other
conditions you know that that support is
is now in incredibly difficult if not
impossible to get we also have you 1.6
million displaced people uh mainly in in
the southern areas of the Gaza Strip
living in very very densely packed uh
conditions you know where families
children are living like many many to to
a room so the sanitary conditions and
the access to Safe Water to food is is
getting worse also by the day and that's
a massive concern and that's why we're
trying to bring in you know an advocate
to bring in more and more life-saving
Aid to get to those shelters to get to
to anywhere where people are in need I
was going to get to that the the aid I
know that access is difficult and
dangerous and UNICEF has in the past
been able and allowed to send several
trucks to deliver life saving Aid
medical supplies have you been able to
get any supplies in into Gaza in the
past few
days yeah I mean supplies have been
coming in but at a very low capacity and
and totally inadequate for for the
massive needs across the Gaza Strip so a
couple of days back there were 30 trucks
and we we've been advocating for at
least a 100 trucks a day um and we keep
doing that because we need to get the
water services to improve the water
services we need to bring in medical
equipment we need to bring in hygiene
kits for example to support families and
children who are living in these
shelters but to support across the Gaza
trip so make sure that we can get to
where people are most in need but it's
incredibly difficult now I mean unra un
palestin Refugee has now had more than
100 staff members killed we've had
UNICEF staff members whose family
members have been killed so it's
incredibly dangerous as you know thank
you for for your time thank you for
telling us about what's being done there
on the ground Toby frer spokesman for
Unicef joining us here from Aman Jordan